# Angular
As the complexity of your application grows, the amount of DOM manipulation that needs to be done and the amount of data updates that need to handled manually becomes significantly complicated.<br>
The simple approaches like using the jQuery Library may not sufficiently address the needs that you have on hand. This is where the availability of well structured frameworks like Angular which rely on standard, software engineering paradigms or software engineering patterns like the model view controller or the model view view model or the model view whatever, helps us to implement these web applications effectively and scalably. <br><br>
A **software library** is a collection of implementations of behaviors that you repeatedly use within your applications. So these behaviors can be implemented by using functions with well-defined interfaces so that making use of them in implementing your application becomes straightforward. If you have done programming in any language, you would often see that many of the standard functionality that is supported in these languages are implemented through libraries that you make use of. <br><br>
This is where the concept of reuse of behavior is very, very effective because we are able to implement it once in a library and then reuse that behavior wherever we need within our software application. This also brings in modularity to the way our application is implemented. A good example of a software library that is used in the web world is jQuery.<br><br>
**Differentiate a software library from a software framework**. <br>**A software framework** is an abstraction in which the software provides such generic functionality and then provides you with the ability of customizing that functionality for implementing the solutions for your specific application<br><br>
**Software framework** provides a universal, reusable environment with certain functionality that is part of a larger software platform. We'll look at Angular as an example of how this is accomplished in more detail. There are several other such software frameworks that are used in the web world including Ember, Backbone, and many others.<br><br>
 A framework on the other hand is a specific implementation or particular implementation of a web application, where the framework itself gives a broad generic structure for your application and then you are asked to fill in the details.<br>
The details that are necessary to customize that application to solve the specific problem that you're trying to address. So here, the framework takes complete control over how this applications run and then it'll call in to your user supplied code that helps it to get the work done.<br><br>
This can also be summarized by using this other expression called Inversion of Control. When you use a library, you, the programmer is in control, and you dictate how the code functions and how the code executes.<br><br>
When you use a framework, you are essentially surrendering your privilege to the framework and lets that framework take charge and then dictate how the application is run.<br><br>
In **imperative programming**, you are going to specify the of program functions in a step by step manner. So you are completely and control and then you are essentially saying, this is how you have to accomplished the task and then you'll write down step by step way of accomplishing the task. So you as a programmer is completely in control in specifying exact steps to solve the problem.<br><br>
In **declarative programming** on the other hand, which is effectively used by frameworks like Angular. You are essentially saying this is what I want to get accomplished, and this is how I customized what specifically I want to get accomplished
